The increasing cost of happiness
================
Dr Richard Morris
Updated: 2020-09-05

## Abstract

Goes here.

<br>

### Introduction

-----

A fundamental question for the psychology and economics of wellbeing is
just how much happiness does a dollar buy? Increasing wealth is commonly
associated with increasing happiness, however a point at which wealth no
longer increases happiness has also been [widely
observed](https://www-sciencedirect-com.ezproxy2.library.usyd.edu.au/science/article/pii/S0167487007000694)
(Dolan et al., 2008; Easterlin, 1974). Given that a central goal of
nations and governments is to improve wealth under the assumption that
wealth always increases wellbeing, challenges to this notion have far
reaching consequences (Frijters et al., 2020).

For instance, one [survey of 1,000
Americans](https://www.pnas.org/content/107/38/16489.full), conducted in
2010, concluded that money does make us happier – but only up to a
certain point. The findings showed that self-reported levels of
happiness increased with household wealth up to $75,000 a year. But
after that, increasing amounts of money had no further effect on
happiness (Kahneman and Deaton, 2010). Results such as these have
reinforced the view among psychologists and economists that the
relationship between income and measures of subjective wellbeing, such
as happiness, increases linearly up to a point after which there is
little gained by further increments in income (Clark, 2018; Dolan et
al., 2008).

However a study reported in 2013 challenged the idea that the positive
effect of money plateaus (Stevenson and Wolfers, 2013). After comparing
life satisfaction levels in both rich and poor countries, and rich and
poor people within a country – with “rich” being defined as an income
greater than $15,000 per person – Stevenson & Wolfers concluded: “The
relationship between wellbeing and income … does not diminish as income
rises. If there is a satiation point, we are yet to reach it.”

Subjective wellbeing is not a unitary entity (Diener et al., 2017);
studies typically distinguish between *life satisfaction*, the cognitive
appraisal of one’s own accomplishments, and *happiness*, one’s
prevailing affective state or emotional mood. Money can have different
effects on each. For instance, we have recently reported that positive
life events, such as a major financial windfall, can have a greater
impact on a person’s satisfaction than their happiness (Kettlewell et
al., 2020). And while Kahneman observed the association between
household wealth and happiness plateaud after $75,000; he also reported
the association between wealth and life satisfaction was consistentily
positive. This raises the possibility that contradictory associations
between wealth and wellbeing previously reported may be due to
differences in the construct measured. It is easy to imagine a person
who is satisfied (for example because they have a good job and healthy
family) but is still unhappy on a day-to-day basis. And researchers
studying the relationship between wealth and wellbeing tend to focus on
surveys of *life satisfaction*, which reflects only one domain of
wellbeing, and ignore other aspects of wellbeing such as happiness
(e.g., Stevenson and Wolfers, 2013; Frijters et al., 2020).

Since 2013, a distinct effect of wealth and happiness has also been
challenged. [A survey of 1.7 million people representing 164 countries
over 12 years (2005-2016) in the Gallup World
Poll](https://www-nature-com.ezproxy2.library.usyd.edu.au/articles/s41562-017-0277-0)
reported money was associated with no further improvement in happiness
after $60-75,000, *nor any improvement in satisfaction* after $95,000
(Jebb et al., 2018). Thus while the location differed, money had
inflected effects with both satisfaction and happiness. On the other
hand, in a nationally representative sample of 44,000 adult Americans
over 44 years in the General Social Survey (GSS) happiness continued to
increase with money (Twenge and Cooper, 2020), implying no inflection
point existed between money and happiness.

Both these reports provide contradictory results regarding the nature of
the relationship between wealth and wellbeing, and both are based on
data spanning long periods of time (12-44 years). And while such
research has revealed variations due to world region, gender, and
education, there has been no investigation at to whether the
relationship between wealth and wellbeing has changed over time. The
value of money of course changes over time with inflation, however the
distribution of wealth has also changed over the last 30 years in most
OECD countries (as the rich got richer faster than the poor). Such
changes in the distribution of wealth are also likely to change the
relationship with wellbeing when it is governed by relative wealth
rather than absolute wealth.

We used household economic panel data from Australia (HILDA) to provide
the first investigation of whether changes in wealth and wellbeing have
changed over the last 16 years (2002-2018). We distinguished between
satisfaction and happiness as different components of subjective
wellbeing, and evaluated how each varies with household wealth. Economic
security is better represented by household wealth, since members of the
same household share expenses as well as risks; i.e., they can provide a
direct and immediate support network when financial shocks occur. The
other major studies also used household after-tax income as the
indicator of wealth and economic security, and so we follow the same
standard here as well.

After adjusting for age, relationship status, and education level, we
find that satisfaction increases linearly with household wealth, but the
same purchasing power has diminishing returns on happiness. We also
discover that the location of the inflection point has increased in real
dollar value since 2002.

<br>

#### Wealth

We have a variety of income & wealth information in HILDA, most of it
collected annually. However the household net worth is collected every
four years. In the present report we
    use:

1.  [hwnwip](https://www.online.fbe.unimelb.edu.au/HILDAodd/KWCrossWaveCategoryDetails.aspx?varnt=hwnwip)
    Household Net Worth ($) positive values \[imputed\] \[weighted
    topcode\]. Calculated as assets minus debts for the
    household.
2.  [hifdip](https://www.online.fbe.unimelb.edu.au/HILDAodd/KWCrossWaveCategoryDetails.aspx?varnt=hifdip)
    Household financial year disposable regular income ($) positive
    values \[imputed\] \[weighted topcode\]. The sum across all
    household members of financial year gross regular income minus taxes
    on financial year gross regular
    income.
3.  [tifdip](https://www.online.fbe.unimelb.edu.au/HILDAodd/KWCrossWaveCategoryDetails.aspx?varnt=tifdip)
    Personal disposable income ($) positive values \[weighted topcode\].
    Financial year gross regular income minus taxes on financial year
    gross regular income.

*Note*. We also examined household and personal gross wages, and
household and personal total disposable income.

Income and wealth variables were provided by the University of Melbourne
as imputed, and with weighted topcodes to preserve anonymity. We removed
individuals with values above the threshold indicated for top-coding.

Household wealth variables were adjusted for the number of people in
each household in the same manner as Headey, Muffels & Wooden, 2004;
i.e., income divided by the square root of household size (Buhmann et
al, 1988; Coulter et al, 1992).

<br>

#### Subjective Wellbeing

There are a variety of variables related to subjective well-being
collected annually, but the two we used here matched the variables we
used in our previous paper:

1.  `losat` Life satisfaction - How satisfied are you with your life (0
    to 10)
2.  `gh9a` to `gh9i` Affective wellbeing - Sum of SF-36 item 9 (mental
    health and vitality)

*Note*. We also examined `ghmh` (the 5-item subset of mental health
questions, sometimes called the **MHi-5**, from the SF-36), and the
patterns were almost identical to our sum of 9a to 9i.

<br>

#### Modelling and model-selection

*Modelling*  
To determine whether wellbeing was a decreasing function of wealth or a
linear function of wealth, we modelled the relationship between
individual wealth and wellbeing using a simple B-spline basis function
with 2 degrees of freedom (i.e., 1 y-intercept and 1 inflection point or
*knot*). This was equivalent to a “piecewise” or “broken-stick” linear
regression, and allowed us to determine the direction and location of
the inflection point between wealth and wellbeing in each year.

*Model selection*  
We compared the fit of the “broken-stick” model with a simpler linear
model (“unbroken”), adjusted for degrees of freedom by the Bayesian
Information Criterion (BIC). BIC was chosen over AIC or LRT because it
will penalize our more complex model (the broken stick) more heavily.
Following Raftery, differences in BIC greater than 10 were taken as
“very strong evidence”; greater than 5 were “strong evidence”; greater
than 2 were “positive evidence”; and less than 2 (but greater than zero)
were “weak evidence” for the model with the smallest BIC (
[Raftery, 1995](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/pharmacology-toxicology-and-pharmaceutical-science/bayesian-information-criterion)).

For visualization purposes only, due to the large number of individual
data points in each year, we grouped individuals into 10 equal-sized
subgroups according to their wealth decile ($). Thus in each plot, the
mean wealth and mean wellbeing score for each decile is presented,
rather than each individual data point. Note that the line-of-best-fit
and 95% confidence intervals from the broken stick regression model *of
all individuals* is shown in overlay.

<br>

#### Covariates

Covariates included in subsequent sensitivity analyses were: age,
age<sup>2</sup>, years of education, and dummy variables for partnered,
single (never married), and unemployed.

Years of education were determined from the [Australian Qualifications
Framework
(AQF)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Australian_Qualifications_Framework#Certificates_I-IV)
from the Department of Industry.

Separate analyses for women are included in the Supplementary material.

<br>

### Results

-----

#### Demographics and sample characteristics

After stratification by decile (personal disposable income) we see that
age, proportion of males, couples, years of education and education
levels all increase with decile. Conversely, proportion of females,
single people (never married), unemployed, and fulltime students
decreases with decile. Of particular interest is that wellbeing,
household wealth and SEIFA index follow a U-shaped function with the
minimum value falling between the third and sixth decile.

<br>

#### Household disposable income (adjusted for household size)

**Key points**

  - Cognitive wellbeing (satisfaction) had a relatively linear, positive
    relationship wtih household disposable income. The inflection point
    was equally positive and negative across years, without a uniform
    pattern.
  - By contrast, the relationship between affective wellbeing
    (happiness) and disposable income tended to be a positive but
    decreasing (“*broken*”) function with a uniform inflection point.

<br>

### Conclusions

-----

The main conclusions of this report so far are:

  - The relationship between subjective wellbeing and wealth is positive
    but happiness and satisfaction have different (positive)
    relationships. Satisfaction increases linearly with wealth while
    happiness increases rapidly up to a point, after which further
    increments in wealth produce less change - this is the **cost
    point** of happiness. So money buys happiness when economic security
    is scarce, but not so much once the cost point is reached.
  - The cost point after which money provides decreasing returns in
    happiness is increasing over time. In 2002, the cost point of
    happiness represented a 13% increase over median wealth, while in
    2018 it represented a 67% increase over median wealth.
  - According to Frijters et al. (2020), coming up with a consensus
    estimate for income to translate into welbeing features high on the
    wellbeing research agenda. However evidence of a linear relationship
    between wellbeing and wealth calls into question the need to
    supplant traditional measures of economic success such as GDP with
    measures of wellbeing, such as “life satisfaction” surveys.

### References

<div id="refs" class="references">

<div id="ref-clark2018four">

Clark, A.E., 2018. Four decades of the economics of happiness: Where
next? Review of Income and Wealth 64, 245–269.

</div>

<div id="ref-diener2017findings">

Diener, E., Heintzelman, S.J., Kushlev, K., Tay, L., Wirtz, D., Lutes,
L.D., Oishi, S., 2017. Findings all psychologists should know from the
new science on subjective well-being. Canadian Psychology/psychologie
canadienne 58, 87.

</div>

<div id="ref-dolan2008we">

Dolan, P., Peasgood, T., White, M., 2008. Do we really know what makes
us happy? A review of the economic literature on the factors associated
with subjective well-being. Journal of economic psychology 29, 94–122.

</div>

<div id="ref-easterlin1974growth">

Easterlin, R.A., 1974. Does economic growth improve the human lot? Some
empirical evidence, in: Nations and Households in Economic Growth.
Elsevier, pp. 89–125.

</div>

<div id="ref-frijters2020happy">

Frijters, P., Clark, A.E., Krekel, C., Layard, R., 2020. A happy choice:
Wellbeing as the goal of government. Behavioural Public Policy 4,
126–165.

</div>

<div id="ref-jebb2018happiness">

Jebb, A.T., Tay, L., Diener, E., Oishi, S., 2018. Happiness, income
satiation and turning points around the world. Nature Human Behaviour 2,
33–38.

</div>

<div id="ref-kahneman2010high">

Kahneman, D., Deaton, A., 2010. High income improves evaluation of life
but not emotional well-being. Proceedings of the national academy of
sciences 107, 16489–16493.

</div>

<div id="ref-kettlewell2020differential">

Kettlewell, N., Morris, R.W., Ho, N., Cobb-Clark, D.A., Cripps, S.,
Glozier, N., 2020. The differential impact of major life events on
cognitive and affective wellbeing. SSM-population health 10, 100533.

</div>

<div id="ref-stevenson2013subjective">

Stevenson, B., Wolfers, J., 2013. Subjective well-being and income: Is
there any evidence of satiation? American Economic Review 103, 598–604.

</div>

<div id="ref-twenge2020expanding">

Twenge, J.M., Cooper, A.B., 2020. The expanding class divide in
happiness in the united states, 1972–2016. Emotion.

</div>

</div>
